# Contributing to ps-unity-toolkit

Thanks for being interested in our project!

*Reading and following this guide will help us make the contribution process easy and effective for everyone involved. It also communicates that you agree to respect the time of the developers managing and developing this project. In return, we will reciprocate that respect by addressing your issue, assessing changes, and helping you finalize your pull requests.* 

Contributions are made to this repo via Issues and Pull Requests (PRs). A few general guidelines that cover both:

- Issues should be used to report problems with the application, request a new feature, or to discuss potential changes before a PR is created.

- PRs are always welcome and can be a quick way to get fixes or improvements integrated and/or slated for the next release.

## Quick Links

  - [Development Context](#development-context)
  - [Contribution Process](#contribution-process)
  - [Submitting a Pull Request](#submitting-a-pull-request)
  - [Getting Help](#getting-help)

## Development Context

Here's how we are currently structuring the repo and handling our development process:

- **Formatting:** This toolkit has been structured to meet Unity's guidelines for [custom packages](https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/CustomPackages.html).
- **Contents:** In order to simplify development, we've limited this repository to the contents of the toolkit itself (aka, no project files or external packages.) Required external packages should be listed in the project [readme](README.md).
  - As we develop guidelines for feature samples, this may change.
  - To the extent possible, we want the package to be self-contained. This means avoiding dependencies whenever possible (on rendering pipelines, etc.)
- Our **API Reference** is assembled from [XML comments](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/visualstudio/ide/reference/generate-xml-documentation-comments?view=vs-2019) and can be read [here](com/esrips.toolkits/README.md). All functions should include a preceding XML comment.
- **Documentation** for the toolkit can be found [here](com.esrips.toolkits/Documentation~). All scripts should have a related documentation file in this folder, so that `script-name.cs` is documented in `script-name.md`. Documentation files should go beyond the level of detail in an API reference and include helpful suggestions for implementation, areas for improvement, and even code samples.
- **Updated .unitypackage files** will be generated by the repository admins following each pull request.

We are open to feedback or changes on this process, please share any suggestions!

## Contribution Process

In general, we follow the "fork-fix-pull-request" Git workflow as described [here](https://help.github.com/en/github/getting-started-with-github/fork-a-repo#propose-changes-to-someone-elses-project):

1. Fork `ps-unity-toolkits` to your own Github account

2. Follow [our setup steps](README.md/#setup) to create a compatible Unity project, *except for importing the .unitypackage file for this repo.*

3. Instead, clone `ps-unity-toolkits` into the `Assets` directory of your project

4. Create a branch locally with a succinct but descriptive name (e.g. your-initials/feature-you-are-working-on)

5. Commit changes to your local branch

6. Push changes to your fork

8. Since `main` is protected, the way to get your code in is to submit a Pull Request. Open a PR in our repository. See the next section for more info.

## Submitting a Pull Request

Once you're ready to submit your changes, submit a pull request **into the `main` branch**. We recommend that you open an issue to discuss your proposed changes before making a PR, but you're welcome to submit a PR without an issue so long as you ensure to include a good description of your changes.

1. Follow our template to open a PR

2. For any changes larger than a bug fix, please schedule a code review meeting in the GEM Teams channel and prepare to demo your changes live.

After your PR is approved, the admins will merge it into the main branch, update our [inventory of features](readme.md/#features), and release a new official version of the package.

💡 If you're looking for more info on this process, you can read all about [Collaborating with issues and pull requests](https://help.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests). Or if you prefer something more tutorial-style, check out the [Hello World](https://guides.github.com/activities/hello-world/) and [Forking Projects](https://guides.github.com/activities/forking/) activities on GitHub Guides.

## Getting Help

The two preferred channels for help are via reaching out to maintainers either here or via Microsoft Teams.
